
Windows Event Log Configuration
===============================


Registry
--------

Under the key `HKLM\Software\Microsoft\Windows\CurrentVersion\WINEVT` Windows stores information about publishers registered in the system.

When a provider's event has on of the system's channels assigned, its provider will appear in the EventSources list under the chosen channel event log.

File system
-----------

Log files are stored in `%systemroot%\winevt\Logs`. 

From <http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/aa385225(VS.85).aspx>: The Debug channel is disabled by default. Once the channel is enabled, you can receive events from the channel and access the information delivered with each event. However, you cannot read the event descriptions using the Event Viewer until the trace message format file (.tmf file) for the channel is added into the %SYSTEMROOT%\System32\winevt\traceformat folder. You can create a .tmf file for your private trace files. For more information, see Creating a TMF file. You do not need a trace format file when a Microsoft support technician requests a trace because the technician already has the file.

Retrieving log messages from the provider definition
----------------------------------------------------

After finding the DLL that defines message/resource file names for a given provider, you need to extract manifest resources from it (those are binary files generated by `mc`). A resource file named with the suffix `_WEVT_TEMPLATE.bin` will contain the provider's manifest definition. Additionally you may encounter a MUI file reference - in that case you will need to find the MUI (Multi language interface) DLL that stores all the messages used in events by the provider.
